# Machine learning advances

## A critique of free energy principle as being super-Darwinism
It has been claimed that the 
[Free energy principle](https://www.fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk/~karl/The%20free-energy%20principle%20-%20a%20rough%20guide%20to%20the%20brain.pdf)
is a super-principle that goes beyond the Drawinism and historical materialism. In fact, the minimization of free energy as a principle is as old as Lagrange and Hamilton and dates back to 17th and 18th century, a part of progressive socialist-capitalist development. Jaynes in 1957 proposed some maximum entropy principles in physics that provides certain ways of data modelling that are also useful.

Instead of optimizing for goal as in reinforcement learning, optimizing free energy is another interesting approach, but to elevate it to a super-principle is a bit immature. AI and machine learning modelling of data are only as good as data that they model. Abstract philosophical principles have to interact with reality of brain function and roles that have historical evolutionary principles that are based on Darwinism and historical materialism for them to be useful to society.

It is true that AI and machine learning are important intellectual developments in computer science, but data doesn't exist in the abstract theoretical space. They are the products of flesh and blood of material advancements of now abstractly termed IoTs (Internet of Things). Between the data and IoTs lies the flesh and blood of biological beings that exist in a socio-political environment struggling to overcome viruses such as Covid-19 and other capitalist creations. Just as abstract freedom only exists in the context and geopolitics of corporate system, abstract free energy also lives in the highly limited context of the matrix of international data corporations.

Just as the British Newtonian mechanics has been corrected and improved by Albert Einstein, a Jew from Germany, the British Darwinism ideas have been corrected and improved by the American scientist, Stephen Jay Gould, using the idea of [Punctuated Equilibrium](https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/evolution/library/03/5/l_035_01.html), which explains how new species spontaneously germinate, a process that was later explained among the French mathematics community by René Thom, and later on, V.I.Arnold, a Russian mathematician, described this [catastrophe theory](https://www.springer.com/gp/book/9783642967993) with interesting applications to political science, using Gorbachev's Glasnost as an example of an impending catastrophe in the USSR. A catastrophe is revolutionary change that becomes so drastic that we evolve to a new system with completely a new set of species, an inevitable historical process. Just as the Roman Catholic church refused to believe in moving, rotating earth, the British ruling class still refuses to accept Stephen Jay Gould's ideas. In fact, they have now become so reactionary that they are looking to go backwards towards the Roman Catholic church, by declaring humans evolved through the development of their brain teleologically by some magical neurological mutation, without the toils of the helping hand that sculpted the image of it's divinations, that now fiddle with the keyboard, mouse and the hand-held touch devices, looking for a way out of the matrix of it's own creation, wishing if he could say like Alice in "Through the Looking Glass" with frustration: "You are just my imagination, you kings and queens of the chess game, you don't exist, except in my imagination". 
